Magic: the Gathering is one of the most prolific trading card games played in the world, with an estimated 50 million players worldwide (source: https://investor.hasbro.com/magic-gathering). Invented in 1993 by combinatorics PhD Richard Garfield, Magic (or MTG) is built around a core deck-building system; players assemble cards with synonymous and synergistic abilities that complement one another, and then include the resources designed to best enable their deck to achieve the route they have chosen to attempt to win the game.

The core of the game revolves around the "color wheel:" Magic's cards can be any combination (or none) of five colors: white, blue, black, red, and green, each of which have their own identities associated with them mechanically. Mana is the resource of the game, being spent to play cards and activate abilities, and can be any of these five colors, or colorless.

Magic can be played in several formats, the most popular of which is Commander, also known as EDH (short for Elder Dragon Highlander). EDH sees a player have an eponymous "commander" for their deck, typically a legendary creature (a kind of card intended to represent a story significant character), whose colors dictate what cards can be used in the deck. The decks can also only have one copy of each card (barring a few exceptions), hence the name Highlander (a reference to the movie of the same name and its tagline, "there can only be one").

Although several formats have had them, EDH is also notable for the preconstructed, or "precon" decks released for the format. At what was originally a rate of once per year, but is now once per release, with several per year being released. Preconstructed decks are designed to be approachable, and generally represent common archetypes a player might build their own deck around.

On Moxfield (a popular half-social media, half-database that users can submit their decklists to), there is documentation of every preconstructed deck ever released. On https://github.com/Westly/CommanderPrecons, a web scraped CSV file from Moxfield of every card included in every preconstructed deck can be found, and that is where we begin.

